---
layout: post
title: "Solving level 1 to 5 of the iOS H1-702 CTF without knowing what you are doing"
---

A few days ago I decided to participate in the CTF to learn something about mobile applications. I focused on iOS because I'm more interested to learn about iOS than Android.

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet" data-lang="en"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">I&#39;m always lost in CTFs, I don&#39;t understand what they ask for in each level 🤣. However, I&#39;m giving a try to <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/h1702?src=hash">#h1702</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/ctf?src=hash">#ctf</a> to learn something 💪</p>&mdash; Stefano Vettorazzi (@stefano_soy) <a href="https://twitter.com/stefano_soy/status/884906299598700547">July 11, 2017</a></blockquote> <script async src="//platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

I'm glad that almost everything I learned was new for me.

The iOS device I used is an iPad Air 2, running the latest version of iOS and _without_ jailbreak (I learned that it wasn't possible to jailbreak my device if I had installed the latest iOS version).

Tools
---
These are the tools I found and finally used when looking for ways to solve the levels.

- <https://github.com/Naituw/IPAPatch>:
This one is really useful for resigning the .ipa file and adding functionality like frameworks. First I learned to resign the app using `codesign` and later I found this tool.
The .ipa provided in the CTF wasn't encrypted like the apps downloaded directly from the App Store, so a jailbreak device wasn't necessary.
- <https://github.com/insidegui/AssetCatalogTinkerer>:
When I thought that _Assets.car_ could have the flag for level 1, I googled something about extracting files from .car files and found it.
- <https://github.com/Flipboard/FLEX>:
I don't know why I found this one but it was very useful, because you can see almost everything about the application while it's running just navigating through menus. Using IPAPatch you just add the FLEX.framework to the Assets directory and done.
- <https://www.hopperapp.com/>:
I bought this one a few months ago with the goal of learning more about reverse engineering applications but I haven't invested enough time and energy to learn, so there is not progress. However it was useful I think in one level, and entertaining to see code without understanding what was going on :D

Write-ups (iOS)
---
I'm just copy-pasting the write-ups I submitted to the challenge...

- __Level 1__:
I used the tool "Asset Catalog Thinkerer" to have access to the files in "Assets.car".
There is an image in the content of "Assets.car" called "Matrix-Morpheus" which has the flag.
- __Level 2__:
I opened the application with the tool "Hopper Disassembler".
Looked at every string and noticed one that looked like a hash. I googled that string and found this https://www.thishash.com/md5/5b6da8f65476a399050c501e27ab7d91/.
Entered the value "424241" in the text field and touched "Done".
The flag appeared in the text box.
- __Level 3__:
I used FLUX together with IPAPatch.
With FLUX running in the application:
    - tapped the "Level 3" tab
    - tapped "menu" on FLUX view
    - tapped "IntroLevels Classes"
    - tapped "IntroLevels.Level3ViewController"
    - in "SHORTCUTS" I tapped "Live Instances"
    - tapped the first item
    - in "PROPERTIES" I noticed the "things" NSDictionary with some reasonable values
    - tapped "NSDictionary *things"
    - the second value in the dictionary looked like a flag
    - it was the flag :)
- __Level 4__:
Using "Hopper Disassembler" noticed the method "+[ZhuLi doTheThing:flag2:flag3:]".
Because it is mentioned in the description that the solution involves the first three flags, I tried to execute the method passing the three flags as arguments.
So, I paused the execution of the application from Xcode. Using  "lldb" I executed the function with `e (id)[ZhuLi doTheThing:@"cApwN{y0u_are_th3_ch0sen_1}" flag2:@"cApwN{0mg_d0es_h3_pr4y}" flag3:@"cApwN{1m_1n_ur_n00twork_tere3fik}"]`. This value was returned in the console `@"634170774e7b6630685f7377317a7a6c655f6d795f6e317a7a6c657d"`. Because it looked like a hexadecimal string, I opened python2 and run `'634170774e7b6630685f7377317a7a6c655f6d795f6e317a7a6c657d'.decode('hex')'. The flag was printed.
- __Level 5__:
I tried many things (as in the previous levels). But I just describe how I solved it because I don't remember everything I tried. :(
I run the app using the tool/project IPAPatch with FLEX on Xcode. Using FLEX I noticed there is a class named "KeychainThing" which probably is related to the solution. Using Hopper Disassembler, I noticed the method `createKeychainValue` of the class "KeychainThing" and the string "setmeinurkeychain", which clearly states that I should at least try to set that. So, I paused the application, and using `lldb` I set "setmeinurkeychain": `e KeychainThing *$kct = [KeychainThing new]` (to create a new instance of KeychainThing) and then `po (id)[$kct createKeychainValue:@"something" forIdentifier:@"setmeinurkeychain"]`. I entered `c` on `lldb` for the application to continue. I tapped "Hammer time!" and the flag appeared drawn. After that I just tried to figure out some characters that I didn't understand at first, but at the end it made sense what I figured out of the text.
Later I noticed that it doesn't matter the value of the arguments passed to `createKeychainValue`, they just have to be of type string.

If you want to read the solutions from someone who knew what was doing, read this: <https://pwning.re/2017/07/16/h1702-ctf/>
